feat(nats): add doc for NATS product (#4764)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/nats/api-cli/nats-cli.mdx

tags: messaging nats cli
categories: 
  - messaging
dates:
  validation: 2024-10-18
  posted: 2023-01-20
---

The NATS CLI (`nats`) is the official NATS tool for managing your NATS resources. It allows you to simply create and manage your streams, consumers and more.

Check out the official [NATS CLI documentation](https://docs.nats.io/using-nats/nats-tools/nats_cli/) for installation instructions, examples and more.

<Message type="tip">
  You can also configure Scaleway NATS with the Terraform/OpenTofu NATS Jetstream provider using our [dedicated tutorial](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/scaleway/scaleway/latest/docs/guides/mnq_with_nats_terraform_provider).
</Message>

This page shows you how to get started with some basic actions via the NATS CLI.

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- A Scaleway [NATS account](/nats/how-to/create-account)
- NATS [credentials](/nats/how-to/create-credentials/) downloaded to your machine

## Installing the NATS CLI

> Follow instructions from the [official NATS documentation](https://docs.nats.io/using-nats/nats-tools/nats_cli#installing-nats). The installation process may differ depending on your OS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow instructions from the [official NATS documentation](https://docs.nats.io/using-nats/nats-tools/nats_cli#installing-nats). The installation process may differ depending on your operating system.
```

## Define a context

> To simplify your interactions with NATS hosted on Scaleway, we recommend that you use [contexts](https://docs.nats.io/using-nats/nats-tools/nats_cli#nats-contexts). A context is a named configuration that stores the settings (such as credentials, URLs and certificates) required to connect to NATS. By creating a context, you won't need to specify your server and credentials with each new request.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To simplify your interactions with NATS hosted on Scaleway, we recommend that you use [contexts](https://docs.nats.io/using-nats/nats-tools/nats_cli#nats-contexts). A context is a named configuration that stores the settings (such as credentials, URLs and certificates) required to connect to NATS. By creating a context, you will not need to specify your server and credentials with each new request.

```
